I believe in and practice intent-based-leadership that is inclusive and goal oriented. I provide an environment that empowers my teams to do their best work, understand the business goals, and commit to delivering the best outcomes for the business and its customers. 

I build inclusive and diverse teams where everyone is empowered to contribute. I believe that diversity of thought, background, and experience is critical to building great products. I believe that the best teams are those that are empowered to make decisions and are accountable for the outcomes. 

Some of my favorite leadership books are 'The Advice Trap' and 'The Coaching Habit' by Michael Bungay Stanier, and 'Leadership is Language' by L. David Marquet. They embody my leadership philosophy of intention-based-leadership, empowerment, and coaching. 

I have developed highly performant and effective engineering processes and practices with my teams at GE, Bigfoot, Rocket Lawyer, and Finix. I have also helped other teams and organizations improve their engineering processes and practices. My practices are based on the principles of predictable Lean Agile, and quality engineering practices required in high-trust environments and regulated industries. 

I have found it effective to collaborate with my teams to define engineering practices and processes that work for them. I have found that teams are more likely to adopt and follow practices that they have helped define. I have also found that teams are more likely to adopt practices that are based on principles and values that they believe in. 

I strongly believe in defining agile practices that define and track all types of work in order to provide visibility into the work being done, and to provide a mechanism for continuous improvement. I have found that teams that track all types of work are more likely to improve their processes and practices. Tracking work ensures that the teams have scope to deliver and allows the teams to prioritize work based on business and customer value. 

I believe in building self-governing teams by providing them with the right tools, processes, and practices. It is helpful to work with the team to define and outline the best engineering practices that are often otherwise overlooked. These practices include, but are not limited to, requirements review, high level system design, design review, code review, test review, test automation, continuous integration, continuous delivery, and continuous deployment. By identifying these aspects of engineering and tracking them, teams are able to estimate and predict quality and
project delivery. I a track record of accurately measuring my team's velocity and individual engineer's velocity by tracking all types of work. When this is coupled with well understood engineering activities necessary to design, build, test, and deliver a project, I am able to consistently and accurately predict project delivery. 

I strongly believe in constant open and honest communication with my teams to ensure we are all operating with the same information and are aligned on the goals and objectives. I believe in providing regular feedback to my teams and individuals to ensure they are aware of their performance and are able to improve. I believe in providing regular feedback to my peers and managers to ensure they are aware of my performance and are able to provide me with the support I need to be successful. I hold regular 1:1 meetings with my reports where I take an interest in them, their work challenges, and their career aspirations. I believe that 1:1 meetings are for coaching and should not be used as progress updates. I believe that progress updates are best provided and tracked in dedicated scrum meetings. 

I have successfully hired diverse teams by defining candidate filtering and interview practices that are job-oriented. I design interview sessions that consistently assess the candidate's ability to perform the job they are interviewing for. I have my interviewers contribute to defining the interview questions and assessment exercises, and keep a repository of documented interview questions and examplary answers. I define paired interview rotas for each interview session to ensure that the interviewers are able to provide feedback to each other and to ensure that the interviewers are able to provide a consistent and fair assessment of the candidate. I have a list of primary interviewers who are capable of performing the interview and a list of secondary interviewers who are learning how to conduct the interview session. 

I have designed interview assessment forms that allow the interviewers to consistently rate the same aspects of each candidate's performance and capabilities. The interview assessment forms help to streamline the feedback and calibrate across a pool of candidates. I ask my interviewers to fill out the candidate assessment immediately after the interview is complete. I believe that an interviewer should not be taking comprehensive notes on a candidate during an interview session. I believe that an interviewer should be focused on the candidate and the interview session. My interview assessment forms allow an interviewer to provide a fair and accurate assessment of the candidate's performance if completed soon after the interview is complete. This gives the candidate the best experience, which will make them comfortable and able to perform to their best ability. I believe that the interview process should always be a positive experience for the candidate, regardless of their performance. The interview is an opportunity to sell the company to the candidate as much as assess the candidate. On several occasions, I have heard feedback that my interview candidates speak highly of the company and the interview process, even when they are not offered the job. 

I coach my interviewers to always be polite to every candidate and to never make them feel uncomfortable. I believe that once a candidate has been put under great pressure to provide an answer and allowed to struggle and fail, they are not able to perform for the rest of the interviews. I coach my interviewers to never critisize a candidate or let them fail to avoid this situation. A candidate assessment can be made of their self-driven progress, and the amount of help they need to progress through a practical exercise. Help should be given to a candidate to allow them to proceed, but it should be noted that help was necessary. It is also essential to assess if a candidate is open to receiving help, asks for help, or can take feedback on board as this is a strong indication of what it will be like to work with them. 

I have found that including some task-oriented interview sessions such a coding or system design allow the candidates the opportunity to demonstrate their logical thought process. It is also an opportunity to assess how the candidate collaborates with others. It is a powerful tool to distract the candidate with a congnitive task in order to assess how they really work and collaborate with others. 

I always meet with candidates as the hiring manager to ask broad questions about their approach to engineering and work in general. I ask them to summarize what they have learned from the interviews and give an assessment of how the interviews went. This gives me feedback on the interview process, the interviewers, and the candidate. It also gives me an opportunity to further sell the opportunity at the company to the candidate. 

